feat: Added MissingDataError + Data processing tutorial (#406)
lars-reimann/Safe-DS: docs/Stdlib/python/Tutorials/data_processing.md

# How to process your data

## Load or create a Table

First we need data to work with. There are different ways to create the data.
The data will be stored in a [Table][safeds.data.tabular.Table], a [Row][safeds.data.tabular.Row] or a [Column][safeds.data.tabular.Column].

A Table can be created with python Iterables or you can load [csv][safeds.data.tabular.Table.from_csv] or [json][safeds.data.tabular.Table.from_json] files into a Table.

```python
from safeds.data.tabular import Table

table = Table({"column1": [3, 4, 8, 6, 5],
               "column2": [2, 2, 1, 6, 3],
               "column3": [1, 1, 1, 1, 1]})

table_from_csv = Table.from_csv("path/to/your/csv/file.csv")

table_from_json = Table.from_json("path/to/your/json/file.json")
```

> This table has the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This table produces the following output:
```

| column1 | column2 | column3 |
| ------- | ------- | ------- |
| 3       | 2       | 1       |
| 4       | 2       | 1       |
| 8       | 1       | 1       |
| 6       | 6       | 1       |
| 5       | 3       | 1       |

## Create Rows and Columns

> Columns and Rows can be created with python Iterables or extracted from an existing Table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Columns and rows can be created with python Iterables or extracted from an existing table.
```

Author: I think the capitalization might be useful because the tutorial is referencing the Row and Table Classes

> If we want to create a Row we have to provide a [TableSchema][safeds.data.tabular.typing.TableSchema]. This TableSchema contains information about the Columns, which data their storing and which order they have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we want to create a Row we have to provide a [TableSchema][safeds.data.tabular.typing.TableSchema]. This TableSchema contains information about the columns, which data they are storing and which order they have.
```

> The TableSchema takes a dictionary as input with the names of the Columns as keys and their [ColumnTypes][safeds.data.tabular.typing.ColumnType] as values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TableSchema takes a dictionary as input with the names of the columns as keys and their [ColumnTypes][safeds.data.tabular.typing.ColumnType] as values.
```

> A Table has a TableSchema as well which is created when creating a Table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Table contains a TableSchema as well, which is created when creating a Table.
```

| column1 | column2 | column3 | NewColumn |
| ------- | ------- | ------- | --------- |
| 3       | 2       | 1       | 1         |
| 4       | 2       | 1       | 2         |
| 8       | 1       | 1       | 3         |
| 6       | 6       | 1       | 4         |
| 5       | 3       | 1       | 5         |

## Add Rows and Columns to a Table

You might think this is a very laborious approach to add a column or a row to a Table. You can also add a new [Column][safeds.data.tabular.Table.add_column] or [Row][safeds.data.tabular.Table.add_row] to an existing Table.

```python
table_new_row_2 = table.add_row(new_row)

table_new_column_2 = table.add_column(new_column)
```

## Drop and Keep Columns from a Table

The outputs are the same tables you created in the example above.

Sometimes it might be useful to remove some columns. Therefore, you can create a new table which will either [keep][safeds.data.tabular.Table.keep_columns] or [drop][safeds.data.tabular.Table.drop_columns] some columns from the original table.

```python
table_without_column_1 = table.drop_columns(["column1"])

table_with_only_column_1_and_2 = table.keep_columns(["column1", "column2"])
```

> First the table dropped column1. This leaves a new Table with column2 and column3:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First the column1 is dropped. This leaves a new table containing column2 and column3:
```

Author: ```suggestion
First the column1 is dropped. This leaves a new Table containing column2 and column3:
```
A new instance of the Table class is created, therefore i would keep the capitalization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First column1 is dropped. This leaves a new Table containing column2 and column3:
```

| column2 | column3 |
| ------- | ------- |
| 2       | 1       |
| 2       | 1       |
| 1       | 1       |
| 6       | 1       |
| 3       | 1       |

> In the second example a new Table is created keeping column1 and column2:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the second example a new table is created by keeping only column1 and column2:
```

Author: ```suggestion
In the second example a new Table is created by keeping only column1 and column2:
```
A new instance of the Table class is created, therefore i would keep the capitalization

| column1 | column2 |
| ------- | ------- |
| 3       | 2       |
| 4       | 2       |
| 8       | 1       |
| 6       | 6       |
| 5       | 3       |

## Imputing missing values

> If your data has missing values, it can provide a challenge for some machine learning models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your data is missing values, it might be challanging for some machine learning models.
```

> For this you can use the [Imputer][safeds.data.tabular.transformation.Imputer] to deal with these values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Imputer][safeds.data.tabular.transformation.Imputer] can be used to deal with these values.
```

An Imputer needs a [Strategy][safeds.data.tabular.transformation.Imputer.Strategy] which can either be to replace the missing value with a [Constant][safeds.data.tabular.transformation.Imputer.Strategy.Constant], or the [Mean][safeds.data.tabular.transformation.Imputer.Strategy.Mean], [Mode][safeds.data.tabular.transformation.Imputer.Strategy.Mode] or [Median][safeds.data.tabular.transformation.Imputer.Strategy.Median] of the Column.

```python
from safeds.data.tabular.transformation import Imputer

table_with_nan = Table({"column1": [None, 4, 8, None, 5],
                        "column2": [2, 2, 1, 6, 3],
                        "column3": [1, 1, 1, 1, 1]})

imputer = Imputer(Imputer.Strategy.Median())
table2_imp = imputer.fit_transform(table_with_nan, ["column1"])
```

> The following Table has its `nan` values replaced with the median of column1:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `nan` values in the following table are replaced with the median value of column1:
```

| column1 | column2 | column3 |
| ------- | ------- | ------- |
| 5.0     | 2.0     | 1.0     |
| 4.0     | 2.0     | 1.0     |
| 8.0     | 1.0     | 1.0     |
| 5.0     | 6.0     | 1.0     |
| 5.0     | 3.0     | 1.0     |

## Dealing with strings as data

> For the following three examples we will use a new Table with strings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following three examples we will use a new Table with strings:
```

```python
from safeds.data.tabular.transformation import OneHotEncoder

one_hot_encoder = OneHotEncoder()
table_one_hot_encoded = one_hot_encoder.fit_transform(table_with_strings, ["column1", "column2"])
```

| column1_April | column1_December | column1_January | column1_March | column2_Class1 | column2_Class2 |
| ------------- | ---------------- | --------------- | ------------- | -------------- | -------------- |
| 0.0           | 0.0              | 1.0             | 0.0           | 1.0            | 0.0            |
| 0.0           | 0.0              | 0.0             | 1.0           | 1.0            | 0.0            |
| 1.0           | 0.0              | 0.0             | 0.0           | 0.0            | 1.0            |
| 0.0           | 0.0              | 0.0             | 1.0           | 0.0            | 1.0            |
| 0.0           | 1.0              | 0.0             | 0.0           | 1.0            | 0.0            |

### Using an OrdinalEncoder to deal with strings in a column

> The third method to deal with strings in your data is the [OrdinalEncoder][safeds.data.tabular.transformation.OrdinalEncoder]. This encoder works like the label encoder but keeps an order of the encoded values. This order has to be provided with the fitting method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The third method to deal with strings in your data is the [OrdinalEncoder][safeds.data.tabular.transformation.OrdinalEncoder]. This encoder works like the label encoder but keeps the order of the encoded values. This order has to be provided when creating the encoder.
```

table_months_ordinal_encoded = ordinal_encoder_months.fit_transform(table_with_strings, ["column1"])

ordinal_encoder_calsses = OrdinalEncoder(["Class1", "Class2"])
table_months_and_classes_ordinal_encoded = ordinal_encoder_calsses.fit_transform(table_months_ordinal_encoded, ["column2"])
```

| column1 | column2 |
| ------- | ------- |
| 0       | 0       |
| 2       | 0       |
| 3       | 1       |
| 2       | 1       |
| 11      | 0       |

## Statistics of a Column

To drop or keep certain columns it might be useful to evaluate which columns are important enough to keep and which columns can be dropped.
For this you can use the statistics of a Column.
The [ColumnStatistics][safeds.data.tabular.ColumnStatistics] class provides multiple functions like [`min`][safeds.data.tabular.ColumnStatistics.min], [`max`][safeds.data.tabular.ColumnStatistics.max], [`mode`][safeds.data.tabular.ColumnStatistics.mode], [`mean`][safeds.data.tabular.ColumnStatistics.mean], [`median`][safeds.data.tabular.ColumnStatistics.median] and others.

> If you want a summary over all the columns you can use the [`summary`][safeds.data.tabular.Table.summary] function which provides a table with all the statistics for each column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want a summary over all the columns you can use the [`summary`][safeds.data.tabular.Table.summary] function which provides a table containing the statistics for each column.
```

In the following example we use a query to sort the Columns by ascending sum.

```python
table_ascending_sum = table.sort_columns(
    lambda column1, column2: column1.statistics.sum() - column2.statistics.sum())
```

The table_ascending_sum has the following output:

| column3 | column2 | column1 |
| ------- | ------- | ------- |
| 1       | 2       | 3       |
| 1       | 2       | 4       |
| 1       | 1       | 8       |
| 1       | 6       | 6       |
| 1       | 3       | 5       |

## Filter Rows in a table

Similar to the `sort_columns` function works the [`filter_rows`][safeds.data.tabular.Table.filter_rows] function. You provide a query which returns `1`, if the Row should be kept in the Table.
In this example we will keep all Rows whose sum is an even number.

```python
table_only_even_sums = table.filter_rows(
    lambda row:
        (row.get_value("column1") + row.get_value("column2") + row.get_value("column3") + 1) % 2)
```

This outputs the following Table:

| column1 | column2 | column3 |
| ------- | ------- | ------- |
| 3       | 2       | 1       |
| 8       | 1       | 1       |

## Write a Table into a csv or json file

> If you finished your work with the data you might want to store the data in a file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you finished your work with the data you might want to store the result in a file.
```
